---
date: "2018-06-09"
title: How can I learn how to use Microsoft Azure?
author: Luke
categories:
  - Azure
---

Microsoft Azure is an ever-evolving public cloud offering. In layman’s terms
essentially, the servers or virtual hosts you would usually host in your own
datacentre are hosted in secure regions all over the world. Normal capacity
concerns that you would have needed to manage in the past such as storage and
memory are managed by Microsoft directly – giving you the ability to concentrate
on what really matters – your applications and users.

More information on what Azure is and the services that offer *(which is ever
increasing)* can be found on the following official Microsoft webpages:

-   [What is Azure?](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/what-is-azure/)

-   [Azure Products/Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/)

This mammoth of a Public Cloud offering often causes confusion around knowing
what Azure is capable of and the hardest part is knowing where to start! To
quote a famous Hobbit.

*“It’s a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road,
and if you don’t keep your feet, there’s no knowing where you might be swept off
to.”* – Bilbo Baggins

This blog post is intended to help point you in the right direction whether it
is your first step on the road or you have already started your journey.

*The links below are external to my website and I have no control over them. I
have tried to categorise the resources in terms of skill level as much as I can
and kept to training resources which are free, and I plan on keeping it up to
date and add more as I come across them. Bonus material training services that
you have to pay for (usually subscription based).*

Beginner: So, what is this outside world of Azure that you speak of?
--------------------------------------------------------------------

-   [What is Azure?](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/what-is-azure/)

-   [Wikipedia - More about Azure and some acronyms
    (IaaS/Pass)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Azure)

Intermediate: I am excited! Now to eat supper
---------------------------------------------

-   [Create a 3-Tier Application Using Azure Virtual
    Machines](https://www.udemy.com/free-azure/)

-   [Microsoft Azure
    Essentials](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/azureessentials)

-   [Channel9](https://channel9.msdn.com/Search?term=Azure#ch9Search&lang-en=en&pubDate=year)

Advanced: Up for a Challenge! Let’s throw that ring in the lava
---------------------------------------------------------------

-   Azure Learning Pathways

-   [Azure Citadel](https://azurecitadel.github.io/)

-   [Microsoft Azure Training
    Kit](https://github.com/Azure-Readiness/MicrosoftAzureTrainingKit/tree/master/Demos)

Bonus Material: I have a dragon’s hoard of gold to spend
--------------------------------------------------------

-   Pluralsight

-   SkillMeUp

-   Safari Books Online

-   Udemy
